Test management is divided in two essential activity and those are Test Planning and Test Execution

Test Planning
  Risk Analysis
  Test Estimations
  Test Planning
  
  
 Test Execution
  Test Monitoring and controlling
  Issue management and 
  Test Report and evaluation
  
1. RISK ANALYSISV- WHAT IS RISK ANALYSIS- 
   probability Undesirable event in project. The process of analyzing risks assciated to your project
   Every project has some level risk associated to it and its always good to identify the risk well in advance
   Risk analysis is the crusial step in test management for successfull completion of project in speculated schedule and cost saving
   
   Scenarion: Client ask to complete the testing in 1 month of development completed project
 
 
 HOW TO PERFORM RISK ANALYSIS
  1 Idnetify Risks 
  2 Analyze all risks and its impact 
  3 how to nuetralize or counter those risk nothing but cootegency plan
 
 
 Usueaaly ther are two types of risk  Project and Prduct base.
 
 PROJECT RISK 
  Projecct rsiks can be defined as any undesirable/unwanted/uncertain evnet in project which impact its progress. An impact has to be 
  positive or negative and could effect on prospects of achieving project objectives
  Project riks are further categories as Organisational risk, technical risk and Business riks 
   
    Oragnisational Risk 
      These are the risk related to human resources in your team. It primarily due to resouces contraint, lack of technially skilled members
      or not having enough members.
       
       How to counter this. 
        How balance or is this well organised team  ?  Yes OR No 
            Build a stronger team and foster environment of co-opration
        How members are skilled ? Is there upskilling required?
            Skilled the team members per the required skill in project        
        Compare the project size and schedule and do we have enough manpower to complete the project in timemline
     
     Technical Risk
       Technical Risk is the probability of loss incurred during the execution of a technical process such as untested engineering, wrong testing procedure…etc. Here is an example of technical risk
        Your task in this project is testing a banking website. You have to set up proper test environments which mirror real business environments. If the Test Environment is not setup properly, the product will be not be tested correctly and many defects will not be detected.  
    
     Business Risk
      The risk involves an external entity. It is the risk which may come from your company, your customer but not from your project.
  
  PRODUCT RISK 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SO FAR
  
    What is risk? - undesirable/unidentified/unwanted event in projeclt that can impact project progress.
    What is risk analysis - Process of indentifying risk ans counter solution
    How to perform risk analysis?
      idnetify risks, Analysse those and figure out potential impact associtated with and document the couter mechanism 
    
    Test Planning 
      Risk Analysis 
        > Project 
          > Organisation Risk
            > Human resource problem- 
            > Upskiling 
            > Project size and schedule vs Manpower
          > Technical Risk
            
          > Business Risk           
        > Product 
      Test Estimation
      Test Planning
      Test Organisation
    Test Execution
      Test monitoring and controlling 
      Issue managment 
      Report and 
    
    
  
   
