Cloud
AWS Solutions Architect - Part 1:

What is cloude computing 
Cloude computing characsteristics
Cloude computing Architecture
Cloude Infrastructure 
Cloude deploymetn models 
  1 Public cloude    2 Private cloude
  3 Hybrid     4  Community based 
Cloude computing SERVICE MODELS
  SAAS    PASS   IASS

ADVANTAGES
    No need to maintain own datacenter. As one can hire it over the internet 
    No need to spend on hardware and can demand it online over network 
    Pay for only those resource which are utilized 
    

Where does cloude come 
    Its nothing but multiple machine connected over network which is prexist even before it termed as clode. 
    So whatare these multiple things its like softwares,devices, platform, infrastructure aver the internet is termed as internet and 
    we are going to access it 
    
WHAT IS THE CLOUDE COMPUTING 
  Cloude computing is on demand delivery of compute power, database, storage, applications and other it resources through cloude service 
  platform via the internet with pay as you go pricing. 
  
  SO : 
       1 On demand delivery of compute power database storage and other it resources : such as hardware hard drive space for storage, cpu for calculations or deployment, preexist deployed application over cloude
       2 Over-internet : Means no need of any instrastructure/installation/softwares on local machine it would be need on browser and 
         internet connectivity to access the cloide services 
       3 Pay as you Go: so user has to pay for amount of period services consumed. No need to pay for terminated services or 
         unutilized resources as well as hardware
  
  
  
 CHARACTERITICS OF CLOUDE COMPUTING 
 
      1. On demand self service :  Basically allows user to use webserices and resources  on demand so whenever you need you'll use it.
                                   We can logon to website anytime you need it.
      2. Broad network access :    Since theser services are accessed over internet you can access anytime anywher on any device connected to internet.
                                   No restriction on where and what time one can access these servie 
      3. Location independent resource pooling :                          
                                   Cloude computing allows multiple user to share a pool of resources so there can be multiple users 
                                   who are going to share physical instace of project or they would be sharing database or any other 
                                   infrastructure. So all of these will be sharing among the multiple user.
                                   So suppose there is instance that on user using at particular time would be available to other as soon 
                                   as user release it. So shared among the multiple user 
      4. Rapid Elasticity :        It is very easy scalable i e if you require you need more number of instace/resources at some moment for example 
                                   you have website running on cloude and suddenly there is high demad and access to application/website int 
                                   that case you need more number of servers to serve the large no requests that is goint to required you to 
                                   provision more no of servers but with cloude computing you need to worry it is going to scale up as per the
                                   demand. So scaling on the resources is either incrreasing it or decreasing it. tHAS WHY it called as elastic 
                                   it can shring or grow. Say for any ecommerce application sales grow up duting fetival so the no of resources or 
                                   servers instances can grow up and once festival over it can scale down to original 
      5. Measured Service  :       In this service cloude provider controls and monitor all the aspects of service. 
                                   Such as Resource Optimisation 
                                           Billing and capacity planning everything depend on what services you are going to user 
                                           
                                   
 CLOUDE COMPUTING ARCHITECTURE: It comprises of two parts which is Front end and Backend    
                                Front End basically comprises of client side part such as web browsers which will going to access the cloude
                                computing devices which are present in the backend. 
                                The front end connected to backend via Internet. 
                                Backend is basically cosist of resouces that are rquired of cloude computing services it could be either 
                                virtual machine databases or storages etc under the cloude provider control.
                                So either for example storate or compute distributed across multiple machine in backend   
 CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE : cloud infrastructure consist of 
                               Hypervisor 
                               Management software Deployment software 
                               Storage Servers Network etc at backend at service provider side 
                               Hypervisor: Hupervisor usually used in order to do the virtual machine management. it allows to share single specific
                               instace of cloude resource to serverla channels 
 CLOUDE INFRASTRUCTURE CONTRAINTS :  
                               Transperancy
                               Scalibility 
                               Intelligent Monitoring 
                               Security 
                      
                               
CLOUD DEPLOYMENT MODEL : Cloud deployment model is specific type of environment distinguished based on the ownership, size and access.
                         Ownership : who owns the cloud 
                         Size : various type of resources engaged in cloud
                         Access :  how one can access the cloud network 
                        Common type of Cloud deployment are 
                        Public cloud
                        Private cloud
                        communiity cloud
                        Hybrid cloud
         Public cloud : 
         Public cloud allows system and services to be easily accessible to general public 
         It giant such as google amazon microsoft offer clode services via interbet 
         The clode service provider responsible for creation and ongoing maitainance of the public clode and it resources 
         So what ever resoures which are present inside the cloude which goint to access by the users are maintained by cloud provider 
         BENEFITS of PUBLIC CLOUD: 
         Cost Effective: Since public cloud shares with large number of users  
         Relibility: 
         Flexibility: 
         Location Independance:
         Utility Style Costing:
         High Scalibility; 
         
         
          
